# Databases

## 🛠 Skills
SQL, Oracle DB, Database Modeling

## 📝 Requirements
*We want to automate the management of a local football school, for which information regarding the registered office, club colors and various contact details is already known. The school foresees the enrollment of children aged between 5 and 14 years of whom we want to memorize the football card number that identifies them, name, surname, date of birth and address. Since they are children, it will also be necessary to keep the personal information of one or more parents and the various telephone numbers for possible contacts. For each student, we then want to memorize the payments he makes by recording the date and the amount due, which is fixed at a given amount of money, but may be subject to discounts based on some discounts offered by the company. A payment can only be received by managers who are part of the administrative department or hold the role of president of the Football School. The personal information of each manager must therefore be stored, in addition to the role held, the sector to which he belongs and his date of hiring. To stimulate the players, it is ensured that they will have to earn a starting place in their own category, identified by a name and age of the participants. In order to identify the best ones who will be starters, information is kept regarding the training sessions undertaken by a single member, such as the role he played in the individual sessions and the grade given to him by the coach. Each training session, which lasts a maximum of two hours, is in fact led by a qualified instructor, recognized by his license number. In this way the football school allows the coaches to directly manage the various categories and students from a sporting point of view, even if a coach who is too young or not adequately qualified is not allowed to coach certain categories. Having only one field available, each training session is identified by a unique date and time, it will therefore not be possible for two teams to train at the same time or before a previous session is finished, in addition to not allowing training sessions to take place on two subsequent days. The operations required include automating the entry of payments and training sessions undertaken by the students, updating the teams with instructors and members, as well as facilitating the tasks of the coaches, planning the various training sessions and automatically calculating the best starters for any matches considering the average scores of the last month of training. Necessary constraints concern holidays, in fact there are no payments or training on Saturdays or Sundays, in addition to checks on the age of members who play in a category. Finally, the company reserves the right to protect the instructors by ensuring that they do not work more than three days a week and do not train more than three teams.*

## 📖 Lessons Learned
The project allowed me to proceed in a practical way with the collection of requirements, directly from the customer, aimed at creating a conceptual **ER model** and, subsequently, a **relational model**, i.e. the two logical representations that lay the foundations for the actual implementation and specific to the database. Starting from the abstractions mentioned above, I was able to define the users who interact with the database, to outline the use cases and the sequence diagrams.
From a practical point of view, I was able to independently create the **DDLs** for the creation of the tables of interest and, with respect to them, import the **PKs**, **FKs** and any other **CONSTRAINTs** or integrity constraints. Furthermore, I created the scripts for populating the database and the scripts for creating the USERS who access the system, with the assignment of the respective **GRANTs**. I have also associated a **Trigger** system with the database, such as the log of users who access the database. Similarly, given the overall complexity of the database, I have implemented different **basic functions** to support users, for the calculation of simple mathematical operations, as well as different **Procedures** for the processing of more complex operations that may also involve modifications to the database itself. Another important aspect is represented by the implementation of **Views**, in order to simplify access to data with respect to particularly complex queries, as well as making only the data available to users. Finally, there is no shortage of **DROP** scripts, for the various entities present in the database, and for deleting the database itself.
During the implementation of the database we tried to preserve compliance with the first, second and third normal forms, respectively:
- First normal form (**1NF**): occurs when the database tables do not have repeated columns (atomic attributes);
- Second normal form (**2NF**): i.e. when the tables of the database are in first normal form and all the columns of the individual tables depend on the respective entire primary key (and not on a part of it);
- Third normal form (**3NF**): when the tables are in second normal form and all non-key attributes depend only on the key, i.e. there are no attributes that depend on other non-key attributes.